# Project Manager
#### Description:
For my final project in cs50x i made a project manager. The program is a terminal program written in c++. The program is built up so that the user first creates a project or more, and then fills a selected project with different tasks. As i have background in the construction industry the thought with the program was a "jobplanner". The main point with projects is that they can be split up in different tasks that has to be completed to get the project done. The building project will be split up in tasks like, tiling the bathroom, laying the roof and foundation while other projects like, cleaning the living room, can be split up in vacuuming the floor, dusting the lamp and cleaning the table. When the user add tasks to the project they get to fill in information about task name, description, task estimated time and whos responsible for the task. As the task estimated time is filled in so is the project end date. If the starting date of a project is 2024-07-01 and that projects get added with a task that has a estimated time of 3 days the projects end date gets set 2024-07-01 + the three days of the task. If the user puts in more tasks with more various estimated times, the end date sets further and further in the future. A task can then get deleted or edited wich both affects the end date.


##### Main:
The main file contains a while loop inside the main function that gets the user to the main menu. Here the user gets the choice to create a project, list all made projects based on size, enter a project or quit the program. If the user choose to create a new project the switch statement in main calls a function inside the file project_functions that creates a new project. To create it in a way that keeps the information and data separated for each project i made a class called Project. The project object is then collected in a vector with unique_ptrs to avoid unnecessary copying around the program and to get the memory handled automatically.

Choice number two, list all the projects, also uses a function inside the project_function. The output will then list all the made projects based on size. As mentioned above the project size depends on the tasks in the project. If one project has two tasks with a combined estimated time of 10 days, and another project has 9 tasks with a combined timeframe of 9 hours, the first project in the output will be the one with two tasks and a total project time of 10 days. A reflection on this function would be that a nice feature to add could be to list the projects depending on starting date. That way it could be a practical way to know wich project is going to start first.

The third option in main menu takes the user to the "project menu". Firstly it enters a function that gets the user to input the name of the project that they want to enter. The input is then send to another function inside project_functions that returns a pointer to the project object. To see that the users input was valid the function that returns the Project ptr uses a foreach loop that iterates over the vector of projects. Inside the loop it calls a function thats inside the Project class that returns the project name. If the input is equal to one of the returned name from the class the pointer is returned and the user gets to enter the project menu for that said project. If the input does not match any of the projects names a nullptr is returned and the user gets a message that the input is invalid and gets prompted to input the project name again.

A reflection inside the main file is the structure. From my understanding the main function should make it easy to follow along the code and program by just looking at that function. My main could look a little bloated and unorganized, but i do think it achives some easy following along and understandable code. The projectmenu code is also in this file. I had thoughts about making a separate file for all the menus in the program, but that would make the main function very small and maybe make the program less understandable at first glanze. The main function would then just contain a while loop with a call for the main menu function. I also made the choice to make the returned Project ptr to a reference that gets passed along to alot of functions instead. I do a double check that the returned ptr in the beginning is not a nullptr, but from my understanding while reading other peoples c++ code its better to pass a reference to other various functions instead of a ptr.

##### project_functions:
The file project_functions contains functions that handles the project. The create new project function, as mentioned earlier, creates a new project and puts it in a vector. Another function is the list all projects function that returns a list of all the created projects name. Unlike the list all projects function in main menu that sorts the list based on time, this list is not sorted. The function is used for when a user wants to enter a project and need to type in the project name. To make it easier for the user to not make a mistake when typing, this list prints all the project names.

The listing function from the main menu that outputs the projects based on time is in this file. In the function i created a new paired vector to create a key value sort of list. First i go through the project vector with a foreach loop and gather the estimated time for a project, paired with the project name and put it in the newly made (that only exists in this function) vector. To then sort that vector i used the function std::sort with a lambda function. This function compares the two ints next to each other in the vector and returns true if the first int is smaller then the other. Next i print out the sorted paired vector with a normal for loop.

##### task_functions:
In the file task_functions i have the task related functions. First is a task menu thats using a while-loop like the other menus with different choices presented for the user. When the user have created a project, entered the project menu and then the task menu, they can from here choose to see all the tasks in that project. This function is similar to the one that list up all the project based on total days of tasks, but this one lists up all the tasks inside the project based on size of the task. For this i used a different approach then the paired vector mentioned above. When the user first creates a project with the Project class, an empty vector is also created by the class. When the user then creates a task (inside project_functions) that task has it owns class that looks similar to the Project class. It then stores that task object inside that vector made by the Project class. When the object is inserted in to the vector it checks if the new tasks estimated time is larger then the ones already inside the vector. If thats true, it inserts the task object. If that is not the case, it inserts it last in the vector.

Other functions here is to delete a task, wich does what it says. It deletes the task with the help of the Project class that has the object stored in a vector of unique_ptrs. The function to edit a task makes it possible to edit a task thats already made. The user gets to choose wich info in the task to edit, and then calls a function from the Task class to set the new information on the edited task. To get the particular task object i used a similar approach to get a particular project. It calls a function inside the Project class that returns a pointer to the edit task function and uses that to call the tasks functions inside the Task class.

##### projectmaker:
This file contains all the code for the Project class. As mentioned above its a class that creates an object of a new project made by the user. When created the user gets to input information for the project. To check that the input and information is ok there is a validate function. This checks that all inputs that expects a string is not empty, the input that expects an int is a valid int and the starting date is in fact a real date. If these validating functions doesnt give the right return value, the user gets reprompted with an error message. To validate and handle the starting date input i used the iomanip library and the sstream library. By using functions from these libraries i was able to check that the input starting date wasnt backwards in time, the date was formatted right and able to set an end date based on task estimated times. When trying to figure this out i found that c++20 uses an updated version of the chrono library. My project was written using c++17 so i couldnt use it, but in the future i would probably use this because it looks less complicated and more straight forward when handling dates and times.

##### taskmaker:
The taskmaker file is handling the Task class. Its similar to the Project class with a few differences. The user gets to input the information on the task when newly created and that information gets validated in the same way as the project information, but this information can be edited unlike the project information. It has function for each of its information values that gets the new value when called upon. The input gets validated again using the in class function for validating the input and if everything checks out right a new value is stored for the object.


